# Angular Intership

## Purpose

- This project is to be used as a base project for assessing your abilities developing Angular frontend projects.
- Currently, it's only a very basic project.
- Its only functionality is to be a CRUD app for managing users.

## Goal of the application

Manage users through a HTTP Rest API. The user has just enough properties to identify as such.

## Getting started

In order to start working and running the application:

1. Download/Install node.js
2. Download/Install vscode
3. Install and run your first angular app [Guide]<https://angular.io/guide/setup-local>

---

## Backend

There is already an implemented backend for supporting the assessment goal, so you don't need to implement a backend. <http://onelity.azurewebsites.net>

### Important notes

- If you encounter any issue regarding the responsiveness of the backend, please be patient as the server goes idle when not in use.
- The data may change during your implementation, this is expected. You are not the sole user of the API.
- Basic guidelines on how to use the endpoints, will be provided below. For more information regarding the supported requests consider this [Guide]<https://github.com/typicode/json-server>

## The **User** entity

The entity is very simple

```ts
id: number;
firstName: string;
lastName: string;
email: string;
phone: string;
image: string; // contains a url to an image or a base64 encoding of it
```

## Tasks

You will need to add the appropriate pages for the following tasks, which should be accessible by the UI (side menu and/or buttons)

### **View the current users**

Add a page to list the current users with all their info and their image. For this you will need to use the `GET /users` endpoint

- Paging, filtering, and sorting is also desired
- You can choose if you want to do it client-side or server-side (read the guide on how you can use the backend for server-side operations)

### **Create/Update a user**

Add a page to create/update a user. For this you will need to use the `POST /users` endpoint, for the creation, and the `PUT /users/{the user's id}` endpoint.

- Create a form for the user to populate all the properties of the user. All are required. You should also add some validation (eg length, email format)
- For the ID property, it is not going to be a user input. You must not include it in the request you will make. It will be generated by the backend
- For the image property, the user must either enter a URL or select an image to upload. For the later, you should encode the image to base64 format and store it in the image property.

### **Delete a user**

Add functionality to delete a user. For this, use the `DELETE /user/{the user's id}` endpoint

### Testing (optional)

Although not required, if you implement some unit or e2e testing, it will be a plus.

### Generic guides

- Try to organize and structure your code as best as you can. A nicely written and readable code will be a big plus.
- Utilize modules and components, don't write everything in one file/go.
- Style your templates and use UI/UX best practices.
- Utilize services and dependency injection
- Use routes

## **Commit your progress**

Create a new branch from main and push your progress there.


